README.md, before:

# watson-visual-recognition-cli

## Prerequisites:

1. [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - Download and install Node.js 4.0 or later from [https://nodejs.org/en/download/](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

## Installation:

***&#x1F534;OPTION 1 DOES NOT WORK YET B/C IT HAS NOT BEEN PUBLISHED YET&#x1F534;***

Option 1: To install the CLI from npm, open a terminal window and run:

```
npm install -g watson-custom-classifier-tools
```


Option 2: To install the CLI from local source code: 

* Clone this git repo to your local machine.
* Open a terminal window and cd into the source code directory that contains `package.json` and `index.js`  
* Then run:
  ```
  npm -g install .
  ```

> *Note: You may need to run this with elevated priveleges using `sudo`.*

### Test Installation

Run the command `wvrcc` in the terminal, you should see something like this:

```
$ wvrcc
Watson Visual Recognition - Custom Classifier Tools

  Usage:  [options] [command]


  Commands:

    list [options]             List all custom classifiers
    detail [options] [id]      Fetch custom classifier verbose details
    classify [options] [image]  Classify an image
    create [options]           Create a new custom classifier
    delete [options] [id]      Delete a custom classifier
    set-key [key]              Save your Watson Visual Recognition key in CLI preferences
    unset-key                  Remove your Watson Visual Recognition key in CLI preferences
    *

  Options:

    -h, --help  output usage information

```


The CLI actions can be invoked as pure command line functions, with parameters passed as CLI arguments, or function as an interactive "waizard" that prompts for input.

## Set your Watson Visual Recognition key

You must have a valid Watson Visual Recognition key to use this tool.  If you do not have one, you can get a free trial here: https://www.ibm.com/watson/developercloud/visual-recognition.html

You can either pass the Watson Visual Recognition key as a CLI parameter, or save it in encrypted preferences so it does not need to be passed with every invocation.

#### Specify Watson Key as CLI parameter
This will call the `list` command, using the Watson Visual Recognition key as a CLI argument:

```
wvrcc list --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE
```

-OR-

#### Set Watson Key in encrypted preferences
This will call the `list` command, using the Watson Visual Recognition key in preferences:

```
//first, set the key in preferences
wvrcc set-key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE

//next, call the list command (key is saved for all subsequent actions) 
wvrcc list
```



## List existing custom classifiers

Invoke the `list` command:

```
wvrcc list
```

Or, with Watson key key argument:

```
wvrcc list --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE
```


## Create a new classifier

Invoke the `create` command (You will be prompted for input).  You can specify **multiple** postitive classes, and optionally a negative collection of images, per service specs at: https://www.ibm.com/watson/developercloud/doc/visual-recognition/classifiers-tutorials.shtml

```
wvrcc create
```

Or, with CLI arguments... 

* You can specify multiple postive classes
  * requires pairs of `--positive-class` (string for class name) and `--positive-path` (path to zip file for positive images).  
  * pairs are processed in order specified
* You can optionally specify a negative zip file 
  * contains negative images for the classifier

One positive and one negative:
```
wvrcc create --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE \
  --name classifier_name \
  --positive-class rust --positive-path ./positive.zip \ 
  --negative-path ./negative.zip
```

Multiple postive classes and a negative:
```
wvrcc create --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE \
  --name train_parts  \
  --positive-class wheels --positive-path ./positive-wheels.zip \
  --positive-class rails --positive-path ./positive-rails.zip \
  --positive-class springs --positive-path ./positive-springs.zip \ 
  --negative-path ./negative-other.zip
```


## Show details for an existing classifier

Invoke the `detail` command (You will be prompted for classifier id):

```
wvrcc detail
```

Or, with CLI arguments:

```
wvrcc detail --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE CLASSIFIER_ID
```

Sample Usage:
```
wvrcc detail --key 12345678901234789012347890 damage_123456780
```


## Delete a classifier

Invoke the `delete` command (You will be prompted for classifier id):

```
wvrcc delete
```

Or, with CLI arguments:

```
wvrcc delete --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE CLASSIFIER_ID
```

Sample Usage:
```
wvrcc delete --key 12345678901234789012347890 damage_123456780
```


## Classify (invoke a classifier)
Invoke the `classify` command:

```
wvrcc classify ./path/to/image.jpg
```

Or, with CLI arguments:

* default classifier is system "default"
* can specify multiple classifiers as comma delimited list (no spaces)

```
wvrcc classify --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE --classifier_ids rust,cracks  ./path/to/image.jpg 
```

Output from the classify service will be displayed as a JSON object.




## Local Changes to the CLI

If you would like to make changes in the local source code folder, you need to link back to the local source folder.   You can link the executable to local source code by cd'ing into the local source code folder and running:

```
npm link
```
-----------------

## Uninstall

If CLI was installed via npm, use this command at the terminal:

```
npm uninstall watson-custom-classifier-tools
```

If CLI was installed from local source, cd into the local source directory, and run:

```
npm uninstall .
```

Commit message:

added screen recording video to readme

README.md, after:

# watson-visual-recognition-cli

Command Line Interface for quickly and easily interacting with the Watson Visual Recognition service.  

Check it out in the video below:

[![Screencast of command line interface usage.](https://img.youtube.com/vi/XCMCK27KFvE/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XCMCK27KFvE)

https://youtu.be/XCMCK27KFvE

## Prerequisites:

1. [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - Download and install Node.js 4.0 or later from [https://nodejs.org/en/download/](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

## Installation:

***&#x1F534;OPTION 1 DOES NOT WORK YET B/C IT HAS NOT BEEN PUBLISHED YET&#x1F534;***

Option 1: To install the CLI from npm, open a terminal window and run:

```
npm install -g watson-custom-classifier-tools
```


Option 2: To install the CLI from local source code: 

* Clone this git repo to your local machine.
* Open a terminal window and cd into the source code directory that contains `package.json` and `index.js`  
* Then run:
  ```
  npm -g install .
  ```

> *Note: You may need to run this with elevated priveleges using `sudo`.*

### Test Installation

Run the command `wvrcc` in the terminal, you should see something like this:

```
$ wvrcc
Watson Visual Recognition - Custom Classifier Tools

  Usage:  [options] [command]


  Commands:

    list [options]             List all custom classifiers
    detail [options] [id]      Fetch custom classifier verbose details
    classify [options] [image]  Classify an image
    create [options]           Create a new custom classifier
    delete [options] [id]      Delete a custom classifier
    set-key [key]              Save your Watson Visual Recognition key in CLI preferences
    unset-key                  Remove your Watson Visual Recognition key in CLI preferences
    *

  Options:

    -h, --help  output usage information

```


The CLI actions can be invoked as pure command line functions, with parameters passed as CLI arguments, or function as an interactive "waizard" that prompts for input.

## Set your Watson Visual Recognition key

You must have a valid Watson Visual Recognition key to use this tool.  If you do not have one, you can get a free trial here: https://www.ibm.com/watson/developercloud/visual-recognition.html

You can either pass the Watson Visual Recognition key as a CLI parameter, or save it in encrypted preferences so it does not need to be passed with every invocation.

#### Specify Watson Key as CLI parameter
This will call the `list` command, using the Watson Visual Recognition key as a CLI argument:

```
wvrcc list --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE
```

-OR-

#### Set Watson Key in encrypted preferences
This will call the `list` command, using the Watson Visual Recognition key in preferences:

```
//first, set the key in preferences
wvrcc set-key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE

//next, call the list command (key is saved for all subsequent actions) 
wvrcc list
```



## List existing custom classifiers

Invoke the `list` command:

```
wvrcc list
```

Or, with Watson key key argument:

```
wvrcc list --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE
```


## Create a new classifier

Invoke the `create` command (You will be prompted for input).  You can specify **multiple** postitive classes, and optionally a negative collection of images, per service specs at: https://www.ibm.com/watson/developercloud/doc/visual-recognition/classifiers-tutorials.shtml

```
wvrcc create
```

Or, with CLI arguments... 

* You can specify multiple postive classes
  * requires pairs of `--positive-class` (string for class name) and `--positive-path` (path to zip file for positive images).  
  * pairs are processed in order specified
* You can optionally specify a negative zip file 
  * contains negative images for the classifier

One positive and one negative:
```
wvrcc create --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE \
  --name classifier_name \
  --positive-class rust --positive-path ./positive.zip \ 
  --negative-path ./negative.zip
```

Multiple postive classes and a negative:
```
wvrcc create --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE \
  --name train_parts  \
  --positive-class wheels --positive-path ./positive-wheels.zip \
  --positive-class rails --positive-path ./positive-rails.zip \
  --positive-class springs --positive-path ./positive-springs.zip \ 
  --negative-path ./negative-other.zip
```


## Show details for an existing classifier

Invoke the `detail` command (You will be prompted for classifier id):

```
wvrcc detail
```

Or, with CLI arguments:

```
wvrcc detail --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE CLASSIFIER_ID
```

Sample Usage:
```
wvrcc detail --key 12345678901234789012347890 damage_123456780
```


## Delete a classifier

Invoke the `delete` command (You will be prompted for classifier id):

```
wvrcc delete
```

Or, with CLI arguments:

```
wvrcc delete --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE CLASSIFIER_ID
```

Sample Usage:
```
wvrcc delete --key 12345678901234789012347890 damage_123456780
```


## Classify (invoke a classifier)
Invoke the `classify` command:

```
wvrcc classify ./path/to/image.jpg
```

Or, with CLI arguments:

* default classifier is system "default"
* can specify multiple classifiers as comma delimited list (no spaces)

```
wvrcc classify --key YOUR_WATSON_KEY_HERE --classifier_ids rust,cracks  ./path/to/image.jpg 
```

Output from the classify service will be displayed as a JSON object.




## Local Changes to the CLI

If you would like to make changes in the local source code folder, you need to link back to the local source folder.   You can link the executable to local source code by cd'ing into the local source code folder and running:

```
npm link
```
-----------------

## Uninstall

If CLI was installed via npm, use this command at the terminal:

```
npm uninstall watson-custom-classifier-tools
```

If CLI was installed from local source, cd into the local source directory, and run:

```
npm uninstall .
```
